# Beverage-Impact-on-Problem-Solving-STA305H5S2025
Group project for STA305: Experimental Design @ University of Toronto Mississauga in Winter of 2025.

The aim of this project was to create and implement a research projects using proper experimental design techniques and statistical tests learned in STA305. Read the Abstract below. Final technical report available in Technical Report Folder.

Abstract:

Caffeine is the most popular psychoactive substance in the world, particularly due to its widely known stimulating effects. Due to its properties as a stimulant, it is commonly used to temporarily enhance mental alertness. Intrigued by caffeine’s effects on mental alertness, this study aims to analyze whether an association exists between the use of caffeine by individuals on their problem solving ability. To explore this potential relationship, we provided coffee, energy drinks, and their caffeine-free versions to participants from a virtual population. Once the participants drank their assigned drink, they underwent a problem solving test to assess their problem solving ability. The results showed that there is no significant difference in the mean scores of the participants across the different drinks that were administered to them. This implies that while caffeine may enhance mental alertness, it does not appear to have any significant effect on the problem solving ability of the participants.  Future research should explore these relationships using larger sample sizes, real-world participants, alternative problem solving assessments, and by controlling the time between the administration of the drinks and the test to better understand caffeine’s potential impact on problem-solving skills.
